The aim is to find a black-model(Deep-learning model or Boosting model or Random forest model) that best predict whether a patient is likely to have stroke based on measurable predictors. To determine whether a patient has experienced a stroke, we examine a dataset of strokes and develop a number of statistical models based on quantifiable predictors. A number of easily measurable risk factors, including age, smoking, and hypertension, are needed to determine whether a person will have a stroke. We are compelled to take into account metrics other than the model's accuracy because of the extremely skewness of the data (roughly 96% of the patients have never experienced a stroke). We therefore develop a variety of methods and offer their accuracy, recall, and precision. This is a complete technical report.
About the data
Stroke appears amongst hihgly deadliest disease globally that affects millions of people and it 's very fatal. The dataset that is used in this project is sourced from Kaggle. A stroke is a condition where blood flow to the brain is decreased, causing cell death in the brain. One can roughly classify strokes into two main types: Ischemic stroke, which is due [owing] to lack [paucity, dearth, scarcity] of blood flow, and hemorrhagioc stroke, due [owing] to bleeding. Both variants cause the brain to stop functioning properly. As strokes are one of the leading causes of death, it is of vital importance to understand and comprehend the condition, as well as being able to predict the condition in advance so that preventive measures can be taken to decrease the chance. If you suspect that someone is experiencing a stroke (due to e.g. If you are struggling to say simple complete sentences, or struggling to smile), then call your respective emergency number (in Norway: 113) immediately.
